---
layout: post
title: "Blog 6 - LAMP Stack"
date: 2021-10-26 15:19:17 -700
categories: jekyll update
---

## LAMP Stack

For this blog, I am revisiting the topic: LAMP stack. In the course CIT496P, I had a lab that dealt with using the LAMP stack with AWS. However, I research about LAMP stack to learn more about the topic.

## About LAMP Stack
LAMP is a time-tested stack of Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP. It was one of the first open source software stacks for the web, and it is still one of the most common ways to deliver web applications. It is the open source approach to back end development. 

### Software Components 
- Linux : Linux is a free and open-source operating system. It is the first layer of the LAMP stack. Linux is the backbone of the LAMP stack because it is open-source, flexible, easy to customize, etc.
- Apache: The role of Apache is to be the LAMP's web server. It is the most widely used web server as it hosts more than half of the websites on the internet. Apache works by using the HTTP to process requests and transmit information over the Internet. NGINX is an alternative to use for another web server, and it has been increasingly popular since 2008. NGINX is mostly used for virtual private servers, dedicated hosting, or cluster containers.
- MySQL: MySQL is responsible for being the relational database management system. MySQL stores application data. Information can be stored in a format based on SQL language.
- PHP: PHP is the application programming language. PHP is the fourth layer of the LAMP stack because it interacts well with MySQL. Other programming languages such as Perl and Python are also commonly used as an alternative to PHP.

### Why do Developers choose LAMP Stack?
- LAMP stack is free and open source software. 
- It is a secure and stable platform.
- Developers can customize and interchange the components of the LAMP stack with other open source softwares.
- It is readily available and cost effective. 
