---
layout: post
title: "Blog 1"
date: 2021-09-24 10:44:17 -700
categories: jekyll update
---

## Fall Semester - Week 4-5

Last week in CIT384, I learned more about HTML. I had to create a simple CV using HTML. I also used various git operations during the lab to add our files, commit them, and push the files to our repository.  A new command that I did learn while doing this project is the `git checkout -b dev`. The `git checkout` switches the branches in the repository, and the `-b` flag creates a new branch, which in this case is the dev branch. I also learned how to use basic internal CSS to personalized my CV. The first git push to the repository had an error as the dev branch did not have a upstream branch. I saw other students had the same problem and I tried to follow every solution, but nothing worked for me. I asked a classmate and he suggested that I did `git push -f --set-upstream origin dev`. It finally worked for me because it forced git to push.

For CIT480, the Docker Desktop could not work with my Windows laptop, so I decided I switched over to my Mac laptop because I tried to follow the documentation to fix my solution, and I couldn't get it to fix it any further. It was interesting to learn to install Prometheus and Node Exporter. I also learned how to create a new image from the same container created when first installing Prometheus. I did encounter a problem when I had difficulty in starting the prometheus server in one terminal and another terminal starting the node_exporter. I asked a classmate for help, and he helped me realized that I did not use the command  `docker exec -it simple-prometheus-node-exporter bash` after completing `curl http://localhost:9100/metrics | grep node` in the second terminal. I was then able to successfully check the metrics specific to Node Exporter and browse through the list.





