---
layout: post
title: "Blog 11 - Cloud Computing"
date: 2021-12-09 11:56:17 -700
categories: jekyll update
---

## Cloud Computing

Cloud computing is a term that describes the general process of delivering hosted services via the internet. There are several types of cloud computing: public cloud, private cloud, and hybrid cloud. Public cloud is cloud computing that is offered via the internet and shared between organizations. The cloud providers own and manage all hardware, software, and infrastructure in a public cloud. Private cloud is cloud computing exclusive to a single organization. Hybrid cloud combines public and private clouds.     

## Types of Cloud Services 
There are three common models of cloud services which are Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS), Platform as a Service (PaaS), and Software as a Service (SaaS). 

In IaaS, organizations will use this service as basic building blocks for cloud IT. They are able to access fundamental computing resources, via the internet, typically on a pay-as-you-go basis. The examples of IaaS are Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, Digital Ocean, IBM Cloud, etc.

For PaaS, it will supply an on-demand environment to create software applications. The cloud provider will host everything necessary for developers to effortlessly create web or mobile applications. Examples of PaaS include Windows Azure, Heroku, AWS Elastic Beanstalk, and many more.

SaaS is a subscription-based method of delivering software applications over the Internet. Users can access these applications and services by using a device that has internet access. Some examples of this cloud service are Salesforce, Slack, Google Apps, Microsoft Office 365, etc.

## Benefits of Cloud Computing
- Cost: Cloud computing eliminates the expense of buying hardware and software. Organizations do not have to spend a large amount of money on buying and maintaining equipment.
- Secure: Cloud providers are able to secure data, apps, and infrastructure. Organizations can recover their data during emergencies. Cloud providers can guarantee a secure environment. 
- Agility - Cloud provides a variety of services and technologies. An organization can readily start their application within minutes. 
