---
layout: post
title: "Blog 10 - MongoDB"
date: 2021-12-01 10:04:17 -700
categories: jekyll update
---

For this week’s blog, I researched about MongoDB because my team, for the senior design project, is going to focus on the back end of our web application. I learned and researched about Angular the previous week before, but now I will use this opportunity to research MongoDB.  

## About MongoDB
MongoDB is a cross platform document-oriented database program. MongoDB is known for storing data in JSON documents with dynamic schema. MongoDB is a NoSQL type database that is efficient for high volume data storage. MongoDB is very flexible as it stores data in documents. The features of MongoDB are document oriented, ad hoc queries, indexing, replication, load balancing, aggregation, and many more. It is often compared to RDBMS, but MongoDB is a highly scalable and performance-oriented database; it is also faster than RDBMS. There are many advantages and disadvantages to both MongoDB and RDBMS. MongoDB supports all popular programming languages such as C, C++, Java, Node.js, Perl, Python, Ruby, etc.

## The Key Components of the Architecture 
- _id: This is required in every document. It represents the unique value in the MongoDB document. This is the document’s primary key.
- Collection: This is the grouping of MongoDB documents. It is equivalent to a table, and a collection exists within a single database.
- Cursor: This is a pointer to the query's result set.
- Database: Database is a container for collections. Each has its own set of files on the file system.
- Document: It is a record in a MongoDB collection. It is equivalent to a row in RDBMS.
- Field: Field is the name-value pair in a document.
- JSON: JSON is short for JavaScript Object NOtation. It is a plain text format for expressing structure data.

This is a link that I used to install mongosh. The MongoDB Shell (mongosh) is a functional environment for interacting with MongoDB deployments: [MongoDB Shell Link](https://docs.mongodb.com/mongodb-shell/install/#procedure).
