---
layout: post
title: "Blog 8 - Angular"
date: 2021-11-10 16:07:17 -700
categories: jekyll update
---

For this week’s blog, I want to share the setup of Angular. I am recently trying to study Angular for the senior design group project. 

<br>

## What is Angular?
Angular is a TypeScript-based open-source web application framework. Angular is popular because it is a component of the MEAN stack. It is the front-end of the MEAN stack. Angular is widely used to develop single-page applications. To prepare to learn about Angular, one should have a basic understanding of HTML, CSS, TypeScript, and JavaScript. 

<br>

## Install Angular 
To install Angular, you need to have Node.js installed on your computer. Here is a link to install Node.js: [Node.js download](https://nodejs.org/en/download/). The npm package manager is also required because Angular depends on npm packages. 

<br>

### Installing Angular CLI
The Angular CLI (Command-line Interface) is used to create projects, generate application code, and perform development tasks. 

The command to install the Angular CLI:
>`npm install -g @angular/cli`

To confirm you have installed, use the command: `ng --version`

<br>

### Creating an application
A text editor is necessary to write and run the code. Visual Studio Code is a popular IDE.

To create a new workspace, use the command: 
>`ng new my-app`

The `ng new` command prompts for features to include in the initial app.

<br>

### Running the application
The Angular CLI has a server to build and serve locally

1. You navigate to the workspace folder: `cd my-app`
2. Then you run this command to launch the server: `ng serve`. 

    Once the application is running, you can open your browser and type localhost:4200.

3. If another application is running on the default address, you can run this command to use a different port: `ng serve --port`

<br>

## Benefits of Angular
- Cross Platform - Angular is cross-platform and compatible with multiple browsers. 
- Custom components - build their own components that can pack functionality.
- Speed and Performance - The Angular CLI makes work easier and enables quick loading of the application. 
