---
layout: post
title: "Blog 9 - Bash"
date: 2021-11-18 20:05:17 -700
categories: jekyll update
---

## What is Bash?
Bash is short for "Bourne Again Shell". Bash is a Unix shell and command lanague.  A shell is a program that instructs the operating system to perform actions. It is very comptaible with sh which was Unix's first serious shell - the Bourne shell.

## Why Bash?
Its simplicity is one of the reaons for Bash's sucess. Bash is considered pwoerful because it is scriptable. A user can list anything in plain-text and Bash will run its commands for the user. Bash also has the best features of its precedessors. However, Bash also have its own good features, including built-in commands.

## Common Bash commands

- ls — List directory contents
  - The ls command allows you to quickly view all files within the specified directory.
    - Common options: -a (List all the files ), -l (long listing)
- echo — Prints text to the terminal window
  - The echo command also shows the values of environment variables. It outputs status text 
- cat — Read a file, create a file, and concatenate files
  - The cat command displays files, combining copies of them, and creating new ones.
- cd - Change directory 
  - The cd command is used to navigate through directories 
- chmod — Sets the file permissions flag on a file or folder
  - The chmod command is a solution when a user gets an error when they do not have access to the file. Permissions can be set with either alphanumeric characters, files can be assigned their access with w, r, x, or use octal numbers to change permissions. 
- clear - clear terminal window 
  - The clear command will clear the previous commands and output from the console. 
- cp - copy files and directories 
  - This command is used to back up files. 
- exit — Exit out of a directory
  - The exit command ends the execution of a shell script or log out of the SSH remote access session.
- history — list your most recent commands
  - The history command shows past commands that you used. 
- grep — search
  - This command is used to search the text for patterns specified by the user.
- less — view the contents of a text file
  - The less command allows you to display the contents of a file one page at a time.
- man — Print manual or get help for a command
  - The man command is your manual. It is also very useful when you want to know what a specific command does. 
- mkdir — Create a directory
  - This command is used to create directories
- mv — Move or rename directory
  - The mv command allows you to do batch file renaming 
- pwd — Print working directory
  - The command is used to print the current directory you’re in.
- rmdir — Remove directory
  - This command removes empty directories. 
- touch — Creates a file
  - This command creates new files and it can change timestamps on files and/or directories.





