---
layout: post
title: "Blog 0"
date: 2021-09-04 16:20:17 -700
categories: jekyll update
---


## First week of Fall 2021

For Fall 2021, I am taking CIT480 and CIT384. I am excited to learn the new skills that we will learn over time during this semester. I am motivated to enhance my knowledge and learn new skills and topics so I am prepared when I graduate as a CIT major. As of now, I am currently learning a wide variety of topics such as Git, Setting up Jekyll, ssh commands, HTML, etc.

### CIT480

I was familiar with using Git as I learned a few of the git commands for CIT496P. During the first week of the semester, I had to set up Jekyll for CIT480. I was somewhat familiar with setting up Jekyll because our first project for CIT496P-we learned about static websites, Jekyll, and GitHub. However, I did retouch on installing Jekyll and connecting to my repository in GitHub. I tried to install Jekyll through my MacBook laptop, but I got a few errors during the process. I decided to switch to my Windows laptop to complete the task of testing my GitHub Pages site locally with Jekyll. I experienced another problem when my website was only showing the name of the repository. With the help of my classmates, I moved all the Jekyll files out from the docs directory into the root directory. My site was complete when I moved the files to the right directory. I noticed a file wasn't in the root directory, so I had to restart the process again to avoid any more mistakes in the future. I learned a new topic Markdown, which I will use to create the posts for our senior design class.

### CIT384
For CIT384, I revisited the ssh commands and Git. I was able to access the shell servers with my campus-id account. The only problem I had during the lab was when I could not connect to the Virtual Machine. It was later to be revealed to be a network problem. The lab helped me revisit using the git commands that I learned the previous semester.



