---
layout: post
title: "Blog 7 - MEAN Stack"
date: 2021-10-26 15:19:17 -700
categories: jekyll update
---

## MEAN Stack

I wanted to research more about the MEAN Stack for Blog 7.  My group for the senior design project decided to utilize the MEAN stack as the framework for our web application. I wanted to research this topic because I am not too familiar with the MEAN stack. 

## About MEAN Stack

MEAN stack is Javascript-based framework for developing web applications. The abbreviation of the MEAN means MongoDB, Express, Angular, and Node; these tools make up the layers of the stack. The MEAN stack is a popular technology concept for building web applications. There are also alternatives to the MEAN stack, such as MERN. MERN is similar to the MEAN stack, but it replaces Angular.js with React.js.

## MEAN Stack Components

- MongoDB - It is open source, and it uses object-oriented organization. MongoDB stores the application’s data. The JSON documents created in Angular front end can be sent to the Express.js server, and they can be processed and stored directly in MongoDB for retrieval. MongoDB is preferred because it works well with Angular, Express, and Node. 
- Express.js - Express.js is the web application framework for Node.js. Express is responsible for being the backend of the MEAN stack. It handles the interactions between the frontend and the database, and it ensures easy transfer of data to the end user. 
- Angular.js - It is the default for frontend Javascript development. AngularJS is a popular frontend framework to use when developing a web application in JavaScript. Angular has a well-tuned performance and its easy-to-use templates to build cloud-native applications. 
- Node.js - Node.js is the application runtime that the MEAN stack runs on. It is the backbone of the MEAN stack. Node.js is an ideal framework for a cloud-based application. Scalability is the greatest advantage that Node.js has to offer.

## Advantages of using MEAN Stack 

- It is open source web stack
- It is mainly used for cloud-hosted applications 
- The applications are flexible, scalable, and extensible.
- It is cost effective 
- MEAN stack uses the same language - Javascript for both frontend, backend, and database development.
