---
layout: post
title: "Blog 5 - Docker"
date: 2021-10-20 17:18:17 -700
categories: jekyll update
---

## Docker 

I talked about Dockerfile in a previous blog post, and now I will discuss Docker in depth in this post. 


## About Docker 

Docker is an open source platform that allows you to create, deploy, and manage containerized applications. Docker was started in 2013 and developed by Docker, Inc. Docker organizes software into containers, which requires the necessities a software needs to run, such as libraries, system tools, code, etc. Developers can deploy and scale applications into any environment when using Docker. Docker originally was created to work on Linux, but it was upgraded to support non-Linux operating systems such as Microsoft Windows and Apple OS X.

## What are the benefits of using Docker?

The benefits to using Docker include efficient application development, lower resource usage, and faster deployment. Docker strengthen Linux containerization capabilities and enable: 
- Shared container libraries: Developers can use an open-sourced registry that contains various user-contributed containers. 
- Container reuse: The existing containers can be used as base images 
- Improved portability: Docker containers can run without modification through any cloud environment, desktop, and data center.

These are a few capabilities that Docker strengthens, such as mentioned above.  

#### Docker tools and terms 

The Docker tools mentioned below are ones I have previously used for labs in CIT384 and CIT480.
- Dockerfile - It automates the process of creating a Docker image. It is a list of command-line interface instructions that will assemble the image.
- Docker images - Docker images has an executable application source code, and it has all the necessary tools, libraries, and many other things that the code needs to run as a container.
- Docker containers - It is the live, running instances of Docker images. It is built upon docker images so docker images are read-only files, and the containers are live, executable content.

#### Docker commands 
A few common Docker commands: 
- `docker ps` - list the running containers
  - `docker ps -a` - show all running and exited containers 
- `docker images` - lists all locally stored docker images
- `docker build` - build an image from a specified dockerfile 
- `docker run` - creates the container from an image 
- `docker exec` - access the running container 
- `docker stop` - stops the running container 
- `docker rm` - delete a stopped container 
- `docker rmi` - delete an image from local storage 
- `docker --version` - to get the currently installed version of docker
- `docker pull` - pull images from docker repository 


